apps/evans/mdx/ebook-help.en.mdx, before:

---
title: eBook Help
description:
  'Get help downloading and reading any of the %NUM_ENGLISH_BOOKS% free e-Books from early
  members of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) available on this site. Learn
  about our e-Book formats: EPUB and MOBI, and which one is best for you – plus find
  recommendations on which apps to use to read these e-books. All books are also available
  in paperback format at very low cost, and a growing number are available as audiobooks.'
---

<Lead>
  We’ve made every book on our site available in PDF and two eBook (electronic book)
  formats, so that they are compatible with any computer or digital device. This page will
  explain the basics of PDFs and eBooks, and answer questions for those inexperienced with
  reading books on a screen.
</Lead>

## Why eBooks?

### eBooks vs. PDFs

PDFs are basically just electronic images or static pictures of text. While these are
ideal for _printing documents to be read on paper,_ they are less than ideal for reading
books on a digital device. Advantages of eBooks over PDFs include:

- fonts on eBooks are resizable for more comfortable reading
- background and colors can be adjusted on eBooks to one&rsquo;s personal preference
- eBook reader apps automatically bookmark your last position
- with eBooks, you can easily jump to and from footnotes with a click
- eBooks are legible on all device sizes, including phones with very small screens

## Which Format?

### EPUB and MOBI

There are two standard formats for eBooks: MOBI and EPUB. MOBI is a file format created by
Amazon for use with their Kindle devices and Kindle apps. EPUB is the format used by every
other e-reader app. Both formats are excellent, but EPUB is generally recommended because
it supports more modern features and sometimes results in a better reading experience.

If you’re not sure what to choose, start by trying an EPUB, it will most likely be what
you need. If, however, you already read books on a Kindle device, or from the Kindle app
on your phone, tablet, or computer — then you should use the MOBI file format. Or, if
you’re planning to read on an _Android phone_ you might be better off starting with a MOBI
instead of an EPUB.

### Choosing a Format:

- using a Mac, iPhone or iPad? Choose EPUB.
- Android, Kindle device, or Kindle app? Choose MOBI.
- None of the above? Choose EPUB.

## What App Should I Use?

Almost any free eBook reader app should handle our books without a problem. Here are some
platform-specific recommendations:

### Android Device

- Amazon Kindle app
- Aldiko Book Reader

### Apple Device (Mac, iPhone, iPad)

- Apple “Books” app (recommended)
- Amazon Kindle app

### Windows PC / Device

- Amazon Kindle app
- Kobo app
- Nook app

## Get more help

If you’re still confused, or having any sort of technical problem with our books, or have
a suggestion how we could improve the help on this page, please [contact us!](./contact)
We’d love to hear from you and we’ll do our best to make sure you’re able to download and
enjoy the incredible books on this site in a way that works for you.

Commit message:

monorepo: remove mobi file format everywhere

apps/evans/mdx/ebook-help.en.mdx, after:

---
title: eBook Help
description:
  'Get help downloading and reading any of the %NUM_ENGLISH_BOOKS% free e-Books from early
  members of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) available on this site. Learn
  about reading our books digitally in our app, as an EPUB or in a PDF. Plus find
  recommendations on which apps to use to read e-books. All books are also available in
  paperback format at very low cost, and a growing number are available as audiobooks.'
---

<Lead>
  Because we want you to be able to read comfortably on any computer or digital device,
  all of our books can be downloaded for free in PDF or EPUB (electronic book) format, or
  accessed in the Friends Library app. This page will explain the basics of these digital
  formats, and answer questions for those who are inexperienced with reading books on a
  screen.
</Lead>

## Friends Library App

Probably the easiest way to read all of our books in digital format is in the built-in
e-reader found in our Android and iOS apps for your phone or tablet.

<AppScreenshots emphasizing="read" />

You can download the app for your device by clicking your app store link below:

<AppStoreBadgeLinks />

## eBooks and PDFs

If you can’t or don’t want to read our books from within our app, you can choose to read
digitally as a PDF or an eBook (EPUB). For most users, we recommend eBooks.

PDFs are basically just electronic images or static pictures of text. While these are
ideal for _printing documents to be read on paper,_ they are less than ideal for reading
books on a digital device. Advantages of eBooks over PDFs include:

- fonts on eBooks are resizable for more comfortable reading
- background and colors can be adjusted on eBooks to one&rsquo;s personal preference
- eBook reader apps automatically bookmark your last position
- with eBooks, you can easily jump to and from footnotes with a click
- eBooks are legible on all device sizes, including phones with very small screens

## What App Should I Use?

Almost any free eBook reader app should handle our books without a problem. Here are some
platform-specific recommendations:

### Android Device

- Amazon Kindle app
- Aldiko Book Reader

### Apple Device (Mac, iPhone, iPad)

- Apple “Books” app (recommended)
- Amazon Kindle app

### Windows PC / Device

- Amazon Kindle app
- Kobo app
- Nook app

## Get more help

If you’re still confused, or having any sort of technical problem with our books, or have
a suggestion how we could improve the help on this page, please [contact us!](./contact)
We’d love to hear from you and we’ll do our best to make sure you’re able to download and
enjoy the incredible books on this site in a way that works for you.
