---
title: Quakers Today?
description:
  Many contact us with questions about the present day Society of Friends (Quakers),
  wanting to know if such a group of Christians exists today, or if there is any way to
  connect with them. Others have already searched online and found a great discrepancy
  between the principles of early Quakers and the modern “liberal” Quakers, and are
  confused about the real beliefs and practices of Friends. This article is meant to
  briefly address these questions.
---

After reading some of the books on our website, many people contact us with questions
about the present day Society of Friends (Quakers), wanting to know if such a group of
Christians exists today, or if there is any way to connect with them. Others have already
searched online and found a _great_ discrepancy between the principles of early Quakers
and the modern “liberal” Quakers, and are confused about the real beliefs and practices of
Friends. This article is meant to briefly address these questions.

In the view of the creators of this website, the work of the Lord in and through the early
Society of Friends of the 1600’s was a _return_ to the original life, light, power, and
purity of the gospel that was proclaimed by Christ and the apostles, and is described in
the pages of the New Testament. Quakers were not starting something new; they were
returning to something very old. They were turning with all their hearts to the
life-changing, Spirit-led Christianity of the first century, desiring nothing more than to
glorify God by knowing and living the truth as it is in Jesus.

Friends maintained a great degree of faithfulness and purity for many decades, even amidst
great persecution, and for a long time it was common to hear even believers of other
denominations commenting that, of all of the Christian societies and persuasions, the
Quakers were the most wholehearted and unflinching in their commitment to Christ. But
sadly, by the 1820’s and 30’s, many in the Society of Friends had slid far off their
original foundation. Most of the members at this time had been born into the Society,
inheriting their membership from their parents. And as time had progressed, fewer and
fewer were found among them who had joined the society because of their own first-hand
experience of the heart-cleansing light and grace of Christ, which, in the words of
William Penn, was “their fundamental principle, and the root of the excellent tree that
grew and branched out from it.” There was still a living remnant of faithful members and
ministers even at this late date (men and women like Daniel Wheeler, Thomas Shillitoe,
Sarah Lines Grubb, John Barclay, Ann Branson, Christopher Healy, etc.), but “the cares of
this world, the deceitfulness of riches, and the desires for other things” had already
opened up many inroads for the assaults of the evil one, and his schemes were
well-calculated for the tearing down of what remained.

As early as 1819, a man by the name of Elias Hicks began to spread new and unsound
doctrines throughout the Society of Friends in America. Though he spoke much of an “inner
light,” and alleged his teachings to be in agreement with early Quaker principles, they
were in fact _very much_ at odds with the long-established beliefs of the Society (and
Christianity in general), and so were rejected and disavowed by the experienced and
faithful. His eloquent sermons exalted a sort of spiritual religion that spoke much of
love, justice, abolition of slavery, and other right-sounding concepts, but he led his
followers into a total disregard for Jesus Christ, the Scriptures, and many fundamentals
of the Christian faith—such as the incarnation, virgin birth, and divinity of Christ, the
atonement by the cross, the existence of Satan, etc. He taught that Jesus Christ was no
more than a man who followed the “inner light,” and was thereby endowed with divinity,
often saying, “The same power that made Christ a Christian must make us Christians; and
the same power that saved him must save us.” Eventually, Hicks and his followers caused
the first of two great divisions in the Society of Friends, disassociating from “orthodox”
Quakers, and initiating their own separatist society of “Hicksite” Quakers in 1827.

In an evident (and understandable) attempt to distance themselves from these errors, and
to avoid the false “light” preached by the Hicksites, Quakers in England soon began to
separate themselves from many of the original principles and practices of early Friends,
especially those having to do with the Christian’s dependence upon an inward experience of
the Spirit of God. Greatly influenced by the preaching and writings of Joseph John Gurney,
many who had not been seduced by Hicksism began to conform to a more traditional and
formal Christianity that no longer emphasized the light and grace of Christ as the teacher
and transformer of the heart, and the source of all true worship and ministry. Over the
course of several decades, these so-called “Gurneyite” Quakers progressively departed from
many of the precious Christian testimonies that God had restored to His church at the
bright commencement of the Society of Friends. So that, by the end of the 1800’s, Friends
had become a small, degenerate, and divided body, and the largest two camps (Hicksites and
Gurneyites) bore little resemblance to the faithful men and women who had turned the world
upside down by their faithful adherence to “the Truth in the inward parts” (Psa. 51:6).

Today, the great majority of people and groups who use the name Quaker have little or
nothing in common with the original Society of Friends of George Fox, William Penn, Robert
Barclay, Isaac Penington, etc. It is not our desire to offend modern Quakers by saying so,
but a simple comparison of the books, doctrines, practices, sermons, and lives of early
Quakers and those of today speaks clearly for itself. Early Friends were not social
activists. They were sincere, Bible-believing disciples of Jesus Christ, who first
experienced their hearts greatly cleansed from sin by a total submission to the grace of
God, carrying their daily cross; and then, being changed and led by the Spirit of Truth,
were men and women whose lives manifested the righteous nature of their Savior in all that
they did, both in private and in public. This, of course, led them to testify openly
against oppression, slavery, persecution, and war, because such things are contrary to the
Spirit of Christ. But in our view, the “liberal Quakers” of today are seeking (in various
ways, and to various degrees) to appreciate and uphold some of the conspicuous outward
fruits of the early Society, without knowing or abiding in its Living Root. These talk
much of social justice, equity, integrity, peace, love, etc., and these are doubtless
beautiful words and ideas. But even a glimmer of **true** Light shining in the heart is
enough to see that man’s version of these things not only falls short, but often _opposes_
the perspective and purpose of God. It is an immutable truth, as Christ has taught us,
that “No one is good but One, that is, God.” Early Friends, therefore, understood and
preached that all the _real_ good that a man can know or do must be the fruit of God’s
Spirit—fruit that grows in hearts that turn from self and sin, and follow Christ in the
way of the cross.

In making the Friends Library website and app, our aim has not been to resurrect the
Society of Friends, or to rescue the name Quaker from those who misunderstand it. Names
meant virtually nothing to early Friends; they were a people who cared about _things_ more
than _names, substance_ more than _words._ In fact, the name Quaker was giving to them in
derision when George Fox bid a magistrate to tremble before the living Word of God. There
is a very simple motive behind our efforts in this project, and our attachment to these
publications, which is just this: we believe that early Friends knew the true gospel of
Christ—the light, life, and love of God—and learned to live in it. And we have found that
their writings, and even more so their _lives,_ preach hope and help to the present
generation of seekers who are laboring and heavy laden under the weight of sin, confusion,
and lifeless religion.
